# Chapter 6
## Eradication Procedures

### 6-1. Overview
The Eradication sub-phase of incident handling is when we determine the root cause, remove the elements responsible, and provide the domain objects impacted with new hostnames, IP addresses, and passwords. During this phase, Cyber Defense personnel will also find and fix computers vulnerable to the attack vector used to ensure it is safe enough to begin Recovery procedures. 

### 6-2. Root Cause Analysis Procedures
Cyber Defense personnel will leverage the same techniques used during the Analysis sub-phase to determine the root cause of an incident. Their conclusion must identify the vulnerability, exploit, and payload used. Vulnerabilities originate from design flaws (i.e. missing patches), misconfigurations, and the lack of defensibility (e.g. firewalls, IPS, and application whitelisting programs). Payloads are the effects generated by a violation. One example is a reverse TCP shell. Exploits are the vehicles used to deliver payloads. 

### 6-3. Reimaging, Patching, and Scanning Procedures
Depending on the incident category, all impacted computers will be reimaged with the latest master image. The vulnerability exploited must be patched immediately after the OS is installed and prior to transitioning to the Recovery phase. Cyber Defense personnel will coordinate with the appropriate system administrator if these procedures are necessary. Cyber Defense personnel will also scan the network to identify other vulnerable computers.

### 6-4. Procedures for Reidentifying Impacted Computers
Depending on the incident category, all impacted computers should be given a new hostname and/or IP address. Cyber Defense personnel will coordinate with the appropriate system administrator if these procedures are necessary. 

### 6-5. Procedures for Changing Passwords
Depending on the incident category, all impacted accounts will be given a new password. Cyber Defense personnel will coordinate with the appropriate system administrator if these procedures are necessary. The ISSO will ensure DoD password complexity requirements are enforced. 
